# <a href="http://microbean.org/"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/25515632?s=100&v=4"/><br/>microBeanâ„¢</a>

At the intersection of Java, Kubernetes and the enterprise.

## Overview

The microBean suite of projects brings standards-based
component-oriented programming in Java to the Kubernetes ecosystem.

## Motivation

Java has been doing standards-defined component-oriented programming
for decades.  If you place your `.war` file within a [Java EE (now
Jakarta EE)-compatible application server](https://jakarta.ee/), you
can use the standard components it provides.

Such application servers are frequently (rightly or wrongly) seen as
bloated.  For those holding this view, they provide too many
components that do too many things.  You may need only one or two of
the dozen or so services they offer, but since Java EE is an
all-or-nothing bag of components the footprint of your application
together with the application server will be needlessly large.

Recently, [MicroProfile](https://microprofile.io/) has emerged in
reaction to the all-or-nothing Java EE approach.  It offers up a small
grab bag of components that in theory can be used together or apart.
You can use just [MicroProfile
Config](https://microprofile.io/project/eclipse/microprofile-config),
for example, or MicroProfile Config and
[JAX-RS](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jaxrs)
together&mdash;hence "micro".

But implementations of MicroProfile to date are still following the
application server model.  You take delivery of a product that
"supports MicroProfile" (i.e. all of it) and you deploy your
application into it.  Components that you have no need of still tend
to come along for the ride.

One of the foundational bits of MicroProfile is
[CDI](http://cdi-spec.org/) (Contexts and Dependency Injection).  CDI
2.0 enables a component-oriented programming model, but does not
require that any given component be present.  It also standardizes the
startup sequence and lifecycle for a Java SE application, and allows
plugins ("portable extensions") to take part in that lifecycle.
Finally, it offers features like interceptors, an event bus,
dependency injection and object lifecycle management.

The net effect is that a CDI 2.0 implementation functions as a
backplane to which components may attach themselves.  It's a
communication and bootstrapping mechanism for cooperating Java
components.

**microBean fully embraces this philsophy by supplying interesting and
useful CDI components for your small, targeted, CDI-based Java SE
application to use.**

When it's time for production, many of these components are geared
towards usage within Kubernetes.  For example, some components
[provide your application with a Kubernetes client, preconfigured from
standard
sources](https://github.com/microbean/microbean-kubernetes-client-cdi).
Others [offer up Kubernetes events, allowing you to write your own
controllers](https://github.com/microbean/microbean-kubernetes-controller-cdi).

Other components are geared toward allowing you to assemble your own
server environment.  For example, there are components that [provide
JPA support](https://github.com/microbean/microbean-jpa-weld-se),
[annotation-driven
transactions](https://github.com/microbean/microbean-narayana-jta-cdi),
and various [web
servers](https://github.com/microbean/microbean-helidon-webserver-cdi).
